are hashtags dead on Instagram how many
hashtags should you use should they be
in the caption or the comments and are
they even worth it anymore if you've
asked yourself any of those questions
then you're in the right place because
in today's episode of build your tribe
I'm going to be talking to you about
everything you need to know about
hashtags updated for
2023 I want to start by saying that
rarely do absolutes apply to social
media things like this is the only way
to grow or this doesn't work at all is
rarely true on social media and so to
flat out say that hashtags are worthless
or are totally dead is not true but also
to say that hashtags are a guaranteed
way to go viral is not true hashtags
have long been talked about as a
strategy for growing on Instagram for
years they have been a topic of
discussion for many people they're seen
as a silver bullet a fix all to grow and
fix your engagement on Instagram and a
lot of people maybe even yourself
included view hashtags as a missing
ingredient that's necessary in order to
have success and the thing is they can
help you have success hashtags if used
the right way if used properly and
strategically which we're going to talk
about in just a little bit can lead to
more engagement more reach and possibly
even more followers but they're just not
what they used to be see back in 2016
2017 2018 hashtags were a primary way to
grow on Instagram they were a pretty
reliable consistent and effective
strategy for reaching new people
increasing your engagement and growing
your following but today that's less so
the case today they're a lot less
effective they're definitely a lot less
reliable and they just can't really be
counted on today like they could have a
few years ago and so before we even get
into how to use hashtags effectively on
Instagram I think it's important to
understand why they are less effective
generally now than they were in the past
and in order to understand that we have
to understand what is a hashtag and what
was it designed for a hashtag is
essentially placing the pound sign and
then some sort of word or phrase that
basically categorizes your content it's
a way of telling Instagram the
algorithms and the categorization
systems that exist within Instagram hey
this post is related to # rock climbing
tips this post is related to Hash bab
name ideas and in the early days of
Instagram hashtags were really important
because back then the AI the artificial
intelligence that runs Instagram the
algorithm that runs Instagram it wasn't
as intelligent as it is today back then
Instagram and its algorithms really
relied on us as users to tell it what
our posts were about nowadays it's
really Advanced it can scan our posts it
can scan our closed captions our spoken
audio our captions below the video it
can scan our comments and our subtitles
and pull from all these different data
sources to get a pretty good idea of
what your post is about and more
importantly who would be interested in
seeing that post but this wasn't the
case 8 years ago back then you had to
add the hashtags to directly tell the
computer what your post was going to be
about so that's what hashtags were
basically designed for really they
allowed users to categorize their their
content and they allowed other people to
then search for those categories also
known as search for those hashtags and
find content that they were interested
in but then after a few years what ended
up happening is what always ends up
happening which is US marketers and
business owners and entrepreneurs figure
out how we can use these systems to our
advantage and so Instagram coaches like
myself included began teaching how you
could strategically use certain hashtags
in order to get your content discovered
by the ideal Audience by the people who
you really wanted to be finding your
content and for a few years that was
awesome for a few years we could use
hashtags and really reliably predictably
get our content seen by the right
audiences get it distributed to people
who hadn't previously seen us grow our
engagement and grow our following but
then that changed for a few reasons
number one as I've already stated the
algorithms have gotten more advanced the
artificial intelligence that runs social
media and especially that runs Instagram
has progressed to the point that it no
longer needs to rely on us as humans to
tell them what the post is about number
two the average consumer has gotten more
Savvy to these strategies so in the past
where someone might have searched hash
cakebaking ideas and Then followed that
hashtag and checked out a bunch of the
top posts now people aren't going to
search hash cakebaking ideas they're
just going to search cake baking ideas
and they're going to find anyone who has
posted about cake baking not just the
people who have used # cakemaking ideas
and number three us marketers
entrepreneurs and business owners have
done what we owe always end up doing
which is overusing and abusing these
techniques and strategies so we started
using 30 hashtags which was the maximum
and still is the maximum that you're
allowed to apply to each post and we
were just cramming our post full of
every hashtag we could think of big
hashtag small hashtags Niche hashtags
targeted hashtags generic hashtags basic
hashtags and we were really trying to
gamify this system and reach as many
people as possible which really diluted
the effect of hashtags in general and
also there was just just a lot more
people using hashtags in 2013 there was
probably only a couple thousand people
on Instagram who knew how to
strategically use hashtags to their
advantage but by 2023 the average
business owner entrepreneur or content
creator on Instagram maybe they don't
know the exact best strategies but
they're at least using hashtags on
Instagram and so there's just a lot more
competition a lot more people using
hashtags and thus a lot more fish in the
sea and so all of this to say hashtag
should not be a source of stress or
frustration for you you I for the last
few years have been saying forget about
hashtags and that's not to say abandon
them all together and stop using them
because they're going to kill your
account but instead just stop making
them a source of frustration or stress
or even an area of Instagram where
you're dedicating a lot of time energy
and effort instead your time energy and
effort can go to a lot of other places
they're going to make a lot bigger
difference in your profile and your
growth the most simple example of this
is just focusing more on your content
improving your editing improving your
mic qu quality your video quality your
lighting quality your your pacing maybe
your vocal dialogue or just the amount
of trending topics that you're
discussing in your content there are so
many ways that you can improve your
content that I would recommend focusing
on before focusing on the ideal list of
hashtags because at the end of the day
even the best hashtags ever aren't going
to make up for a bad post if your
content is crappy if the things that you
are sharing are not high quality which
that bar continues to rise day after day
then even the best hashtags even ones
that you pay thousands of dollars for
some expert to come up with for you
they're just not going to perform very
well even Instagram CEO Adam maery
himself has explicitly said quote
hashtags are not something that are
meant to get users more views and
engagement so that gives us a clue as to
what Instagram's thinking is and how
they plan on using hashtags and
promoting hashtags in the future all
right with all that being said hopefully
we are now on the same page with
hashtags and let's talk about what the
best tips are in order to use them so
that you can actually still see benefits
maybe not as predictably but at least
sometimes on Instagram tip number one
answers the question of how many
hashtags should you use now I already
said that you can use up to 30 that's
the maximum that Instagram allows you to
use if you try to add a 31st hashtag
Instagram will delete the comment
altogether and not even allow it and it
used to be a best practice to use 28 to
30 because the thought here was that
well if in allows us to use that many
let's try to use the most that we can
and just get the most bang for our buck
right make sure that our post is showing
up in all of these different hashtag
categories and honestly that was
effective for quite a while but either
Instagram changed their algorithms or
maybe human nature and behavior changed
and now the ideal number of hashtags to
use is around 3 to five hashtags but I
will say that number is not set in stone
and in fact the average engagement rate
based off the number of hashtags you use
is relatively consistent up until around
20 21 22 hashtags once you get up to
that number 22 or more it seems that the
engagement rate typically goes down a
little bit so again the best number of
hashtags to use is just a handful maybe
three four or five hashtags but even if
you use something like 11 to 12 hashtags
the average engagement rate still only
drops by about 2% so it's a very small
difference whether you're using one
hashtag or 19 hashtags but again
Instagram CEO has kind of dribbled us
some best tips along the way and
something that he says and something
that the at creators Instagram account
often says is that ideally you should
stick with the less is more strategy so
three to five hashtags is really a good
number to stick with what size hashtags
should you use again this is something
that the number varies and there is no
exact concrete amount of other posts
using that hashtag that makes it like
the perfect sized hashtag but ideally
it's best to stick with hashtags that
have less than 2 Mill million total uses
or really ideally even less than 1
million but I'll let you sneak by with
about 1.5 or even up to 2 million total
uses because that ensures that it's a
popular hashtag that ensures that it's a
hashtag that other people are likely
using searching for and consuming the
content on but that ensures that it's
not too popular right we don't want to
use # love # photography # food that
have hundreds of millions of uses
because then you're just going to get
lost in the sauce there's way too many
other people who are also using those
hashtags there's way too many spammers
who are using those hashtags every
single day and so the likelihood that
someone is going to search hash love
first of all is very low and the second
of all the likelihood that someone is
going to search hash love and see your
post is very very low so again I'm going
to set your upper limit at around 2
million but really ideally 1 million or
fewer other people having previously
used the hashtag and in terms of the
lower limit I'm going to set that number
around 25,000 so at least 20 25,000
other people ideally should have already
used that hashtag but no more than 2
million people have already used it
again though these numbers aren't
absolutely concrete if you have a
hashtag that clearly fits the criteria
I'm about to lay out but it has 2.1
million uses or it has 22,000 previous
uses then it's okay to use it again
remember the goal here the overarching
theme of this podcast is to not stress
about your hashtags set them and forget
them I'm interrupting myself really
quickly to let you know that many chat
is hosting their annual Instagram Summit
and yours truly has been asked to speak
and I'm going to be speaking about how
to create an entire months worth of
content in just one weekend using
artificial intelligence using AI but I'm
not the only one Speaking there are so
many awesome incredible other speakers
who are going to be at this event it's
an entirely virtual event so no matter
where you are in the world if you have
internet access you're going to be able
to attend in fact there's over 15 top
Instagram entrepreneurship online
business speakers who are going to be
talking about the hyper growth
strategies that you can use to really
dominate Instagram not just in terms of
growth and engagement but also sales and
making money in 2023 and even into 2024
so you're going to want to make sure you
sign up the event is at the beginning of
October but prices are going up very
soon and that's why I'm letting you know
about it right now but you can get a 20%
off discount code if you use the link
down in the show notes below again this
is many chat's annual Instagram Summit
that myself and many other top
instagrammers and top online
entrepreneurs will be speak speaking at
so make sure to grab your ticket down in
the show notes below but anyways back to
the episode my fourth tip for your
hashtags and this is probably the most
important one that I can share if you
miss all the rest of this video please
listen right now please take notes right
now your hashtag should relate to the
post but not necessarily the entire
account let me give you a personal
example let's say I was sharing a post
on Instagram about viral reels that you
can use on your hooks I would use #
viral hook idea or real hook ideas on
that video rather than # Instagram
growth tips or # how to grow on
Instagram or # Instagram coach because
hash Instagram coach or hash uh viral
growth tips those apply to my account
but those don't necessarily explicitly
and directly specifically apply to that
post so when you're coming up with your
three to five hashtags you should be
thinking about and asking yourself the
question what would I use what terms or
phrases would I use specifically to
describe this post not necessarily what
would describe my account as a whole let
me give you another example let's say
you do cake baking recipes you wouldn't
use # cake idea or cake baking idea or
baking recipe on your videos instead you
would use hashtags that specifically
relate to that recipe so something like
Blackberry vanilla icing recipe or #
fall flavored cake or # pumpkin spice
cake recipe again our goal here is
really to specifically describe the post
not necessarily the account or the other
posts we make or who we are or what we
do whereas in the past that might have
been a best practice now we really want
to get specific with those hashtags tip
numero syco is about where do the
hashtags go and when do you add them so
maybe you're watching this video right
now and you're like o I'm going to whip
out my phone and I'm going to go back to
my post from the last couple days and
add all my hashtags well that's probably
not going to work out very effectively I
mean you can it's not going to hurt but
it might be a waste of your time because
hashtags work first and foremost on a
recency basis and what I mean by that is
your engagement will only count towards
that hashtag if the hashtag is applied
before the engagement happens and that
might have been a little confusing so
let me explain some more let's say I
post a real and I get 100 likes in the
first day and then the second day I add
# rock climbing tips but on that second
day the majority of my followers have
already seen it and so I only get let's
say 17 likes well then basically
Instagram and the algorithm would count
only 17 of those likes towards the
hashtag and my ranking within the
hashtag rather than the total number of
likes that that post got which is 117 so
that's why it's beneficial to add your
hashtags immediately after posting and
even pre-plan them before posting now I
said add them immediately after posting
and you might be wondering how do I do
that would I edit my caption and put
them in why wouldn't I just put them in
my caption in the first place and this
is kind of tip number five b again Adam
maery Instagram CEO has explicitly said
that there is no difference in terms of
Engagement or use or the feature of
using hashtags whether you put them in
the caption or in the comments below the
post so they're applied equally they
count either way the hashtags are being
used whether they're in your caption or
they're in your comment section I
recommend placing them in the comment
section because if you have the choice
between the two let's go with the option
that is a little bit more hidden a
little bit more tucked away right often
times we're putting work into our c
options maybe we're putting uh multiple
paragraphs or we want to make sure
people are reading to the bottom to read
that call to action and if you put a
chunk of hashtags even just a couple of
them at the bottom of your caption in my
opinion that visually detracts from the
caption itself basically I want my
readers I want my followers I want my
viewers to be able to read through my
entire caption and not feel like oh you
know there's just this list of hashtags
at the bottom so I'm just going to skip
the bottom and maybe they accidentally
skip the last paragraph or I don't want
my followers to read through my caption
see one of the hashtags at the bottom
and be like oh hey I'm interested in
that topic and then tap on one of those
hashtags abandon my post forget to
engage with my post and go down a rabbit
hole of some other area of Instagram so
again since all things are equal since
hashtags count whether they're in your
caption or in your comments I recommend
putting them in the comments
unfortunately a lot of scheduling tools
nowadays even allow you to add a first
comment when you're scheduling the post
this is not an ad for metrol but I use
metrol to schedule the majority of my
content and metrol has a feature where
you can pre-plan the first comment so
that not only does your post
automatically post itself it also
automatically then has a comment from
you including the hashtags so again the
answer to the question of when and where
do I put my hashtags you put them in
your first comment immediately after you
post that post now earlier I briefly
mentioned ranking on hashtags and really
that's how they're going to work
nowadays if your hashtags are going to
work for you if you're going to get more
engagement and reach from your hashtags
it's because you are ranking for those
hashtags what the heck does that mean
you can follow along with me right now
by opening up your phone and going to
Instagram or you can just kind of look
right here where I will put up an actual
little screenshot or screen video of uh
what this looks like but essentially if
you go to Instagram and you search for
any hashtag let's do hasht Fitness for
example you're going to see that
Instagram shows you a compilation a kind
of like Collage if you will of what they
call Top posts now how do you become one
of these top posts there's no exact
science to it it's not like once you
reach 500 likes then you become a top
post generally speaking it's when a post
is your top post which is a cool way
that Instagram is kind of leveled the
playing field so essentially rather than
the top posts within the fitness
category being the posts that have
#fitness and have gotten the most likes
ever instead it's the posts within the
fitness category the posts that I've
used has Fitness that have gotten the
most likes for that Creator so if you're
a fitness Creator even if you have let's
say 300 followers on Instagram if you
make a post and you use #fitness and
that post does significantly better than
all of your other posts it's one of your
best performing posts then it's likely
to be added to the top post section
within #fitness and then of course
you're going to get a lot more views and
engagement and reach from anyone who's
looking at that hashtag but again
there's no exact science and no one has
necessarily been able to crack the code
of exactly what you need to do to become
a top post and Instagram has very
strategically designed it that way so
that if anyone did figure it out they
would very quickly change the algorithm
because again they don't want us to
abuse that system but if you look
through some of these top posts you'll
see that there are posts from a couple
hours ago there are posts from a couple
days ago there's even posts likely from
a couple weeks if not a couple months
ago and as you're scrolling around you
might see a very big discrepancy in
terms of the engagement on these posts
for example as I'm looking at these top
posts right now one post has almost
9,000 likes the post right below it has
450 likes the next post has 2,000 likes
the next post has their likes hidden the
post after that has 700 likes 900 likes
400 likes and so you can see here here's
this next one 52 likes you might be like
I get 52 likes on some of my posts
that's a great example of how this
person probably doesn't usually get 52
likes they probably get usually like 20
or 30 likes and now they got 52 likes on
one of their posts so the Instagram
algorithm is like oh this is one of the
best posts from this Creator and they
used hashtag Fitness so this is going to
be a top post in hash Fitness now when
you're looking at the top posts you're
also going to see a little filter button
on the right hand side of the screen
which allows you to filter the top posts
by their recency which actually won't
change what the top posts are instead it
will just reorder all of the top post
that are already on that page and put
them in chronological order so now that
you understand ranking you might be
asking yourself well Brock if I have a
post that I know is going to do well
shouldn't I use one of these really big
popular hashtags I mean if the playing
field is level and I know my post is
going to be one of my best then
shouldn't I use these super popular
hashtags so that I can get seen by
hundreds of thousands of people rather
than maybe just a few thousand people my
answer that to that would be sure you
can try that out you can experiment with
that it doesn't hurt to test things out
we should always be testing things out
but it's also very un likely that you
are going to rank as a top post and I
would rather rank as a top post with
something that's very specific to my
content rather than just a general topic
let's use that example of Fitness like
yes maybe you are going to use #fitness
and this is going to be one of the best
posts you've ever made in terms of
Engagement but maybe there are also
300,000 other people who are using
#fitness at the same time as you who are
also having their best post they've ever
made so again more competition means
it's less likely that you're going to
succeed when using those Uber popular
hashtags also to stick with the fitness
Niche if you do use hasht Fitness and it
is one of your best posts and you do end
up ranking as a top post yes you're
going to get more views and engagement
but are those views really going to
translate into followers maybe maybe
your post is just that great maybe it's
that General that Universal that anyone
who's searching hash Fitness is going to
follow you because of it but most likely
the people who are looking at the those
super popular hashtags the super generic
ones like hasht recipe or #fitness or #
love they don't fall into one specific
category right they don't really fit
your Niche they aren't truly your ideal
follower it's just a massive amount of
people it's like you know renting a
billboard in Time Square you're getting
a much less targeted audience than if
you rent a billboard on a rural Highway
in Iowa so again to go back to that
example let's say that you do use hash
Fitness and you do become a top post
you're likely getting by 18-year-old Jim
Bros and 75-year-old women who are just
getting into fitness for the first time
and they've never been to the gym before
and maybe neither of those two people
are your ideal follower and so maybe
they look at your post maybe they engage
with it but I highly doubt they're going
to become a follower of you and if they
do become a follower of you if they're
not your ideal target audience because
maybe your ideal target audience is a
woman in her 40s who's getting into
running well then those followers are
likely never to be super engaged and
they're very unlikely to ever become
customers so if we really zoom out on
the topic of hashtags it all goes back
to the classic way to grow on Instagram
which is knowing your Niche and truly
identifying who your target audience
your target market is once you know that
and once you know how to specifically
describe your posts you're going to be
able to get a lot more targeted with
your hashtags and really attract the
right kind of followers through your
hashtags my final tip that I have for
you especially if you're someone who as
I've been talking you've been getting
more and more anxious and overwhelmed is
first and foremost remember what I said
forget hashtags take a deep breath don't
stress out over them but this tip more
specifically is if you struggle to come
up with hashtags look at your competitor
hashtags look at some of the best
Instagram accounts who are in your Niche
or in your industry and see what they're
doing maybe they're not using hashtags
at all but if they are using hashtags
it's not a crime to use the same
hashtags is them by all means use their
hashtags for inspiration use their
hashtags to get ideas as to what what
hashtags you might want to be using on
your future Instagram posts thank you so
much for listening today I hope you
enjoyed this episode let me know down in
the comments if you learn something new
let me know what works best for you in
hashtags how many do you usually use do
you use 14 30 do you never use any let
me know down in the comments below this
video and make sure to subscribe for the
next one thanks so much for
watching
[Music]
oh